Q: What is IELTS?
A: The International English Language Testing System  (IELTS) is a standardised and widely recognised English language assessment that evaluates the English language proficiency of non-native English speakers who wish to study or migrate to an English-speaking country.

Q: Why are there two versions of the IELTS test?
A: The IELTS Academic is an assessment to test if your English language skills meet international academic proficiency. In contrast, the IELTS General is an assessment to test if you possess adequate language skills for the workplace and social situations.

Q: Is IELTS academic easier than IELTS general?
A: The English reading and writing sections for IELTS Academic is more advanced. Therefore, IELTS General is comparatively easier and more straightforward.

Q: Which IELTS test should I take up?
A: If you are planning to pursue an undergraduate or postgraduate course in an English-speaking environment, or migrate for professional registration, then you must take up the IELTS Academic test.

Q: What is the IELTS test format, and how long does it take?
A: The IELTS exam can be taken online (Computer Delivered Test) and offline (Paper-Based Test). Both the modes follow the same format. The listening and speaking sections are the same for both academic and general, while the writing and reading sections differ slightly. The total duration given to complete the test is 2 hours and 45 minutes.

Q: Which IELTS is easier? IELTS paper-based test or Computer-delivered IELTS?
A: Both the paper-based test and the computer-delivered test are of the same difficulty level.

Q: When can I take IELTS?
A: The IELTS exam is conducted several times throughout the year. The candidate can choose a date that fits their schedule.

Q: How much does IELTS cost?
A: The registration fee to take up the IELTS examination is NPR. 23,000.

Q: Is there any dress code for the IELTS exam?
A: There are no restrictions on the dress code while taking the IELTS exam. The candidates can wear any attire they are comfortable in.

Q: What is the procedure to cancel or postpone my application?
A: -

Q: What if I am absent or sick on the test day?
A: If a candidate fails to appear for the test, it will be considered a cancellation, and no refund will be provided.

Q: Is the IELTS test completed in one day?
A: The listening, reading and writing sections should be completed together on the same day. The speaking session can be taken on the same day or 3 days before or after the actual test date.

Q: Is one month enough for IELTS preparation?
A: With a strict schedule and consistent practice, preparing for the IELTS exam is possible.

Q: How can I pass the IELTS first attempt?
A: Though it might be challenging to clear the IELTS exam on the first attempt, it is not impossible. With consistent practice and hard work and practice, the candidate is sure to succeed.

Q: What can I bring into the IELTS test room?
A: The candidate must take their identification document. Along with this, the candidate will be allowed to take a pen/pencil and an eraser.

Q: Which part do I take first in the IELTS exam?
A: The order of the sessions are as follows:

Q: Which is the hardest part of IELTS?
A: Based on multiple surveys on the IELTS exam, the writing section is often considered the most difficult.

Q: Which is the easiest part of IELTS?
A: Based on multiple surveys on the IELTS exam, the writing section is often considered the most difficult.

Q: Do they repeat questions on IELTS?
A: During the speaking session, the interviewer will repeat the question only once.

Q: Can I use a pen for the Listening and Reading tests?
A: -

Q: Can I take notes in IELTS listening?
A: Yes, candidates are allowed to take notes during the listening session.

Q: Can I pause IELTS listening?
A: No, you cannot pause or stop the audio in between. The audio will be played only once.

Q: What is the IELTS Speaking test?
A: The speaking section assesses the candidate’s spoken skills. The examiner will engage in a conversation with the candidate and discuss multiple topics to test their use of spoken English.

