Q: What is the TOEFL test?
A: The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) is an English language proficiency test. This is primarily used by non-native English speakers while applying to colleges abroad, where English is the standard mode of communication.

Q: How much does it cost to take up the TOEFL Exam?
A: The cost of the TOEFL exam in Nepal is approximately USD 190 to USD 220, but prices may vary.

Q: Is Toefl harder than ielts?
A: Both IELTS and TOEFL examinations require consistent practice. However, many test takers have found TOEFL relatively harder.

Q: Is a passport required for TOEFL Exam?
A: Yes, the candidate must possess a valid passport at the time of taking the exam

Q: How long is the TOEFL score valid?
A: Candidates can receive the results electronically

Q: Can I take the TOEFL Exam from home?
A: Students who prefer to take up the test at home instead of going to the test centre can take up TOEFL iBT. The test content is similar to that of the pen-and-paper format, and the candidates will be proctored by a human proctor online through Proctor.

Q: How long does it take to receive the TOEFL exam results?
A: TOEFL exam results are typically available online within 6 to 10 days in Nepal.

Q: What happens if I fail the TOEFL Test?
A: There is no minimum passing score for TOEFL. However, each university has a specific requirement. If you fail to meet your chosen university/college standards, you will have to retake the examination.

Q: How many times can I take TOEFL Test?
A: There are no restrictions on the number of times you can take this test.

Q: Which countries accept the TOEFL exam certification?
A: TOEFL exam results are typically available online within 6 to 10 days in Nepal.

Q: What is a good TOEFL score?
A: An overall band score above 100 is considered a good TOEFL score.

Q: How to check the TOEFL results?
A: When the scores are available, the candidate will be informed via mail. The candidate can view the score either via their account online or using the TOEFL app.

Q: What is the syllabus for TOEFL?
A: The TOEFL exam consists of four categories:

Q: How do I start preparing for TOEFL?
A: Understand the test format

Q: How long is the TOEFL Test?
A: The total duration for both

Q: How can I pass TOEFL successfully?
A: Understand the test format

Q: IELTS vs TOEFL - which is easier?
A: Both IELTS and TOEFL examinations require consistent practice. However, many test takers have found TOEFL relatively harder.

Q: Can I prepare for TOEFL in 15 days?
A: With consistent practice and hard work, it is possible to ace the TOEFL exam in just 15 days.

Q: How do I register for TOEFL?
A: You can register for the exam online, in-person, via phone and by mail.

Q: What is the eligibility for TOEFL Exam?
A: There are no specific eligibility requirements to take up the test. However, the candidate must possess a valid passport during the exam.

Q: How do I send the TOEFL score to universities?
A: Log in to your account online or use the TOEFL application.

Q: What is the pattern of the TOEFL Exam?
A: The TOEFL exam has 4 significant parts:

Q: What is the passing score for the TOEFL Test?
A: There is no fixed passing grade as each university has its own minimum grade for this test.


Q: Who conducts the TOEFL exam?
A: The TOEFL examination is conducted by the

